
How Web Works Exercise
Part One: Solidify Terminology

In your own terms, define the following terms:

What is HTTP? 
Hypertext Transfer Protocol How browsers and servers communicate
governs how clients get data from, or send data to, a server.


What is a URL?
uniform resource locator, a URL is an address for some website


What is DNS? 
Domain name service turns this into an IP address
Short for Domain Name System, this is a system that takes human-readable 
URLs and converts them into IP addresses.


What is a query string?
This provide "extra information" -serach items/information or forms
The query string allows you to pass key-value pairs into the URL, 
in the format ?key1=value1&key2=value2...


What are two HTTP verbs and how are they different?
GET - get some data from the server (most pages, search forms)
POST - send some data to the server (pages that change data on server)


What is an HTTP request?
An HTTP request is a request from a client to a server which follows the HTTP protocol 
(eg a request for HTML from news.google.com)

What in an request

Method (ex: GET)
HTTP protocol version (almost always 1.1)
Resource URL you want
Headers
Hostname you’re asking about
Date your browser thinks it is
Language your browser wants information in
Any cookies that server has sent
And more!

What is an HTTP response?
An HTTP response is a response from a server to a client which follows the HTTP protocol
(eg sending back HTML/CSS/JS/etc)
what is in an HTTP response
HTTP protocol version (almost always 1.1)
Response Status Code (200, 404, etc)
Headers
Content Type (typically text/html for web pages)
Date/time the server thinks it is
Any cookies server wants to set
Any caching information
And more!

What is an HTTP header? Give a couple examples of request and response headers you have seen.

Headers provide additional information about the request or the response. Here are some examples:
Request headers: Host, User-Agent, Accept, Cookie, Cache-Control
Response headers: Content-Type, Last-Modified, Set-Cookie, Cache-Control

Hostname you’re asking about
Date your browser thinks it is
Language your browser wants information in
Any cookies that server has sent
And more!

What are the processes that happen when you type “http://somesite.com/some/page.html” into a browser?
 Step 1  browser translate the name into an IP address using DNS
 Step 2 browser makes a request to that IP address( including headers,any previous 
 cookies, and other things)
 Step 3 The server send the response back (typically, HTML, 
 with a status code (200 if it was sucessful)
 Step 4 browsers make a DOM from that HTML, and find ( imgs, css,js,etc)
 Step 5 browsers make separate HTTP requests for those resources and receive response from the servers for each